# Top-6-football-leagues-players-salaries-anomalies
The football industry, starting from late 1888, sometimes even earlier, has begun to tend to expand their ‘team connection’ to as many people as possible. Top clubs are mainly focusing on the ‘long-term’ strategy of football fan addiction, while the weaker and, in this particular case, usually wealthier teams try to pick the ‘short-term’ strategy in order to outbeat their competitors not only on the field but also in the profits sheet. These clubs obtain an opportunity to purchase much more famous and profitable players and grab so-called free-fan clients of their size just because of the brand credibility. All others, apart from undecided football-cheering beginners, usually do not tend to change their club preferences, thus assisting ‘long-term’ strategy clubs with their cash inflows to maintain their financial plan and be capable of good league standings. However, recent finance top-6 league Deloitte financial reports are showing non-promising insights for the club’s stable business position. Operational costs, which mainly consist of players’ salaries, are on average get covered by 70% of the total revenue Deloitte (2021). Different unexpected market fluctuations, not only the big ones like COVID-19, keep reflecting pure financial position and lack of crisis-resolving solutions. Along with permanent ticket and team products price escalation and the growing number of people involved (according to the PPVs and free- streaming data), football is one of the rest sports that do not consider a sufficient salary gap model. In England, it is 85% of the total revenue; in Spain, it is over 1 billion euros - a massive level, especially considering the fact that the closest and simultaneously the most in-debt team, Barcelona, is lacking approximately 300 million euros. The rising share of ‘short-term’ strategies due to the clubs’ recent easier access to the loan market, like COVID-19 practically interest- free debts, pushing the clubs to financial inequalities but with the same league performances. All in all, FIFA need to regulate it because the bigger salaries, the game performances, usually arise when a player is moving to a new club. Such transfers are the main cause of salary gap team integration. From the all mentioned above the goal is to establish the minimum accessible salary gap research that is enough to finish on the first 4 positions at the table by the end of the season in top-6 leagues. My business goals could ne defined as:Identify salary anomalies by statistical distribution analysis; Identify that clubs with higher salary deviations tend to be unsuccessful in their performance or vice versa; Provide insights for top-6 football leagues management about possible salary gap in order to prevent increasing share of net-to-debt clubs’ ratios.
